EDU-672: Backport .NET coverage of Workflow Updates into existing updated languages (#3048)
temporalio/documentation: docs/develop/dotnet/message-passing.mdx

```csharp
[Workflow]
public class GreetingWorkflow
{
    public enum Language
    {
        Chinese,
        English,
        French,
        Spanish,
        Portuguese,
    }

    // ...

    [WorkflowUpdateValidator(nameof(SetCurrentLanguageAsync))]
    public void ValidateLanguage(Language language)
    {
        if (!Greetings.ContainsKey(language))
        {
            throw new ApplicationFailureException($"{language} is not supported");
        }
    }

    [WorkflowUpdate]
    public async Task<Language> SetCurrentLanguageAsync(Language language)
    {
        var previousLanguage = CurrentLanguage;
        CurrentLanguage = language;
        return previousLanguage;
    }

    // ...
```

- The Update attribute can take arguments (like, `Name`, `Dynamic` and `UnfinishedPolicy`) as described in the API reference docs for  [`WorkflowUpdateAttribute`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Workflows.WorkflowUpdateAttribute.html).

- About validators:
  - Use validators to reject an Update before it is written to History.
    Validators are always optional.
    If you don't need to reject Updates, you can skip them.

>   - Define an update validator with the [`WorkflowUpdateValidatorAttribute`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Workflows.WorkflowUpdateValidatorAttribute.html) attribute.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Define an Update validator with the [`WorkflowUpdateValidatorAttribute`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Workflows.WorkflowUpdateValidatorAttribute.html) attribute.
```

- A [WorkflowExecutionSignaled](/references/events#workflowexecutionsignaled) Event appears in the recipient's Event History.

#### Signal-With-Start {#signal-with-start}

Signal-With-Start allows a Client to send a Signal to a Workflow Execution, starting the Execution if it is not already running.
If there's a Workflow running with the given Workflow Id, it will be signaled.
If there isn't, a new Workflow will be started and immediately signaled.
To use Signal-With-Start, call `SignalWithStart` with a lambda expression invoking it:

```csharp
var client = await TemporalClient.ConnectAsync(new("localhost:7233"));
var options = new WorkflowOptions(id: "your-signal-with-start-workflow", taskQueue: "signal-tq");
options.SignalWithStart((GreetingWorkflow wf) => wf.SubmitGreetingAsync("User Signal with Start"));
await client.StartWorkflowAsync((GreetingWorkflow wf) => wf.RunAsync(), options);
```

### Send an Update {#send-update-from-client}

An Update is a synchronous, blocking call that can change Workflow state, control its flow, and return a result.

> A client sending an Update must wait until the Server delivers the Update to a Worker.

Author: ```suggestion
A Client sending an Update must wait until the Server delivers the Update to a Worker.
```

Workers must be available and responsive.
If you need a response as soon as the Server receives the request, use a Signal instead.
Also note that you can't send Updates to other Workflow Executions or perform an Update equivalent of Signal-With-Start.

- `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted` is added to the Event History when the Worker confirms that the Update passed validation.
- `WorkflowExecutionUpdateCompleted` is added to the Event History when the Worker confirms that the Update has finished.

To send an Update to a Workflow Execution, you can:

- Call the Update method with `ExecuteUpdateAsync` from the Client and wait for the Update to complete.
  This code fetches an Update result:

  ```csharp
var previousLanguage = await workflowHandle.ExecuteUpdateAsync(
    wf => wf.SetCurrentLanguageAsync(GreetingWorkflow.Language.Chinese));
  ```

> - 2. Use `StartUpdateAsync` to receive a handle as soon as the update is accepted or rejected

Author: ```suggestion
- 2. Use `StartUpdateAsync` to receive a handle as soon as the Update is accepted or rejected
```

    It returns an `UpdateHandle`

  - Use this `UpdateHandle` later to fetch your results.

>   - Asynchronous Update handlers normally perform long-running async activities.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Asynchronous Update handlers normally perform long-running async Activities.
```

                var greeting = Workflow.ExecuteActivityAsync(
                    (MyActivities acts) => acts.CallGreetingServiceAsync(language),
                    new() { StartToCloseTimeout = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(10) });
                if (greeting == null)
                {
                    // 👉 An update validator cannot be async, so cannot be used to check that the remote
                    // CallGreetingServiceAsync supports the requested language. Throwing ApplicationFailureException
                    // will fail the Update, but the WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted event will still be
                    // added to history.
                    throw new ApplicationFailureException(
                        $"Greeting service does not support {language}");
                }
                greetings[language] = greeting;
            }
            var previousLanguage = CurrentLanguage;
            CurrentLanguage = language;
            return previousLanguage;
        }
        finally
        {
            mutex.ReleaseMutex();
        }
    }
}
```

After updating the code for asynchronous calls, your Update handler can schedule an Activity and await the result.

> Although an async Signal handler can initiate similar network tasks, using an Update handler allows the client to receive a result or error once the Activity completes.

Author: ```suggestion
Although an async Signal handler can initiate similar network tasks, using an Update handler allows the Client to receive a result or error once the Activity completes.
```

> This lets your client track the progress of asynchronous work performed by the Update's Activities, Child Workflows, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
This lets your Client track the progress of asynchronous work performed by the Update's Activities, Child Workflows, etc.
```

This is an important feature that helps you control your handler logic.

Consider a `ReadyForUpdateToExecute` method that runs before your Update handler executes.
The [`Workflow.WaitConditionAsync`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Workflows.Workflow.html?#Temporalio_Workflows_Workflow_WaitConditionAsync_System_Func_System_Boolean__System_Int32_System_Nullable_System_Threading_CancellationToken__) call waits until your condition is met:

```csharp
    [WorkflowUpdate]
    public async Task<string> MyUpdateAsync(UpdateInput updateInput)
    {
        await Workflow.WaitConditionAsync(() => ReadyForUpdateToExecute(updateInput));
        // ...
    }
```

Remember: Handlers can execute before the main Workflow method starts.

#### Ensure your handlers finish before the Workflow completes {#wait-for-message-handlers}

Workflow wait conditions can ensure your handler completes before a Workflow finishes.

> When your Workflow uses async Signal or Update handlers, your main Workflow method can return or continue-as-new while a handler is still waiting on an async task, such as an Activity result.

Author: ```suggestion
When your Workflow uses async Signal or Update handlers, your main Workflow method can return or continue-as-new while a handler is still waiting on an async Task, such as an Activity result.
```

Reviewer: I don't think "task" should always be upper-cased. Perhaps in some contexts when it's very explicitly an abbreviation for Activity Task or Workflow Task, but here we're referring to tasks in the .NET's concurrency framework (which we do in several languages, e.g. Typescript (Node event loop tasks) and Python (asyncio tasks.)

> The Workflow completing may interrupt the handler before it finishes crucial work and cause client errors when trying retrieve Update results.

Author: ```suggestion
The Workflow completing may interrupt the handler before it finishes crucial work and cause Client errors when trying retrieve Update results.
```

- **The client can't contact the server**:
  You'll receive a [`Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException.html) exception whose `Code` property is [`RpcException.StatusCode`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException.StatusCode.html) with a status of `Unavailable` (after some retries).

- **The workflow does not exist**:
     You'll receive a [`Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException.html) exception whose `Code` property is [`RpcException.StatusCode`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException.StatusCode.html) with a status of `NotFound`.

See [Exceptions in message handlers](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#exceptions) for a non–.NET-specific discussion of this topic.

### Problems when sending a Signal {#signal-problems}

When using Signal, the only exception that will result from your requests during its execution is `RpcException`.
All handlers may experience additional exceptions during the initial (pre-Worker) part of a handler request lifecycle.

> For Queries and Updates, the client waits for a response from the Worker.

Author: ```suggestion
For Queries and Updates, the Client waits for a response from the Worker.
```

> If an issue occurs during the handler Execution by the Worker, the client may receive an exception.

Author: ```suggestion
If an issue occurs during the handler Execution by the Worker, the Client may receive an exception.
```

- Prefer data classes to multiple input parameters.
  Data class parameters allow you to add fields without changing the calling signature.

### Query handlers {#queries}

A [Query](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#sending-queries) is a synchronous operation that retrieves state from a Workflow Execution.
Define as a method:

```csharp
[Workflow]
public class GreetingWorkflow
{
    public enum Language
    {
        Chinese,
        English,
        French,
        Spanish,
        Portuguese,
    }

    public record GetLanguagesInput(bool IncludeUnsupported);

    // ...

    [WorkflowQuery]
    public IList<Language> GetLanguages(GetLanguagesInput input) =>
        Enum.GetValues<Language>().
            Where(language => input.IncludeUnsupported || Greetings.ContainsKey(language)).
            ToList();

    // ...
```

Or as a property getter:

```csharp
[Workflow]
public class GreetingWorkflow
{
    public enum Language
    {
        Chinese,
        English,
        French,
        Spanish,
        Portuguese,
    }

    // ...

    [WorkflowQuery]
    public Language CurrentLanguage { get; private set; } = Language.English;

    // ...
```

> - The Query attribution can accept arguments. <div style={{backgroundColor: '#ffff00',padding: '0px 15px',borderRadius: '5px',border: '1px solid #cccccc',display: 'inline-block'}}>**Example, like... and show?**</div>

Reviewer 2: > Example, like... and show?

I didn't see an example of this in Python that I can make the .NET equivalent of. Is there benefit to solving this only in .NET?

- Accepting and rejecting Updates with validators:
  - To reject an Update, raise an exception of any type in the validator.
  - Without a validator, Updates are always accepted.
- Validators and Event History:
  - The `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted` event is written into the History whether the acceptance was automatic or programmatic.
  - When a Validator raises an error, the Update is rejected, the Update is not run, and `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted` _won't_ be added to the Event History.
    The caller receives an "Update failed" error.

<div style={{backgroundColor: '#ffff00',padding: '0px 15px',borderRadius: '5px',border: '1px solid #cccccc',display: 'inline-block'}}>**Please translate to .NET.**</div>
- Use the `UpdateHandle` interface to obtain information about the update.
  - `getExecution()`: Returns the Workflow Execution that this Update was sent to.
  - `getId()`: Returns the Update's unique ID, which can be useful for deduplication when using Continue-As-New: see [Ensuring your messages are processed exactly once](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#exactly-once-message-processing).

>   - `getResultAsync()`: Returns a `CompletableFuture` with the update's Workflow Execution request result, which can wait for the Update to complete.

Reviewer 2: This has no Python equivalent that I can see

In this case you need to obtain a Workflow handle for the external Workflow.
Use `Workflow.GetExternalWorkflowHandle`, passing a running Workflow Id, to retrieve a typed Workflow handle:

```csharp
// ...

[Workflow]
public class WorkflowB
{
    [WorkflowRun]
    public async Task RunAsync()
    {
        var handle = Workflow.GetExternalWorkflowHandle<WorkflowA>("workflow-a");
        await handle.SignalAsync(wf => wf.YourSignalAsync("signal argument"));
    }

    // ...
```

When an External Signal is sent:
- A [SignalExternalWorkflowExecutionInitiated](/references/events#signalexternalworkflowexecutioninitiated) Event appears in the sender's Event History.
- A [WorkflowExecutionSignaled](/references/events#workflowexecutionsignaled) Event appears in the recipient's Event History.

#### Signal-With-Start {#signal-with-start}

Signal-With-Start allows a Client to send a Signal to a Workflow Execution, starting the Execution if it is not already running.
If there's a Workflow running with the given Workflow Id, it will be signaled.
If there isn't, a new Workflow will be started and immediately signaled.

> To use Signal-With-Start, call `signalWithStart` and pass the name of your Signal with its arguments:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Signal-With-Start, call `SignalWithStart` with a lambda expression invoking it:
```

- Call the Update method with `ExecuteUpdateAsync` from the Client and wait for the Update to complete.
  This code fetches an Update result:

  ```csharp
var previousLanguage = await workflowHandle.ExecuteUpdateAsync(
    wf => wf.SetCurrentLanguageAsync(GreetingWorkflow.Language.Chinese));
  ```

- 2. Use `StartUpdateAsync` to receive a handle as soon as the update is accepted or rejected
    It returns an `UpdateHandle`

  - Use this `UpdateHandle` later to fetch your results.
  - Asynchronous Update handlers normally perform long-running async activities.
  - `StartUpdateAsync` only waits until the Worker has accepted or rejected the Update, not until all asynchronous operations are complete.

  For example:

  ```csharp
  // Wait until the update is accepted
  var updateHandle = await workflowHandle.StartUpdateAsync(
      wf => wf.SetGreetingAsync(new HelloWorldInput("World")));
  // Wait until the update is completed
  var updateResult = await updateHandle.GetResultAsync();
  ```

  For more details, see the "Async handlers" section.

:::info NON-TYPE SAFE API CALLS

In real-world development, sometimes you may be unable to import Workflow Definition method signatures.

> When you don't have access to the Workflow Definition or it isn't written in Python, you can still use non-type safe APIs and dynamic method invocation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you don't have access to the Workflow Definition or it isn't written in .NET, you can still use non-type safe APIs and dynamic method invocation.
```

Pass method names instead of method objects to:

- `ITemporalClient.StartWorkflowAsync`
- `WorkflowHandle.QueryAsync`
- `WorkflowHandle.SignalAsync`
- `WorkflowHandle.ExecuteUpdateAsync`
- `WorkflowHandle.StartUpdateAsync`

> Use these non-type safe APIs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use non-type safe overloads of these APIs:
```

- `ITemporalClient.GetWorkflowHandle`
- `Workflow.GetExternalWorkflowHandle`

:::

## Message handler patterns {#message-handler-patterns}

This section covers common write operations, such as Signal and Update handlers.
It doesn't apply to pure read operations, like Queries or Update Validators.

:::tip

For additional information, see [Inject work into the main Workflow](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#injecting-work-into-main-workflow) and [Ensuring your messages are processed exactly once](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#exactly-once-message-processing).

:::

> ### Add async handlers to use `Workflow.await` {#async-handlers}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add async handlers to use `await` {#async-handlers}
```

    {
        // 👉 Use a mutex here to ensure that multiple calls to SetLanguageAsync are processed in order.
        await mutex.WaitOneAsync();
        try
        {
            if (!greetings.ContainsKey(language))
            {
                var greeting = Workflow.ExecuteActivityAsync(
                    (MyActivities acts) => acts.CallGreetingServiceAsync(language),
                    new() { StartToCloseTimeout = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(10) });
                if (greeting == null)
                {
                    // 👉 An update validator cannot be async, so cannot be used to check that the remote
                    // CallGreetingServiceAsync supports the requested language. Throwing ApplicationFailureException
                    // will fail the Update, but the WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted event will still be
                    // added to history.
                    throw new ApplicationFailureException(
                        $"Greeting service does not support {language}");
                }
                greetings[language] = greeting;
            }
            var previousLanguage = CurrentLanguage;

>             CurrentLanguage = langauge;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            CurrentLanguage = language;
```

            return previousLanguage;
        }
        finally
        {
            mutex.ReleaseMutex();
        }
    }
}
```

After updating the code for asynchronous calls, your Update handler can schedule an Activity and await the result.
Although an async Signal handler can initiate similar network tasks, using an Update handler allows the client to receive a result or error once the Activity completes.
This lets your client track the progress of asynchronous work performed by the Update's Activities, Child Workflows, etc.

### Add wait conditions to block {#block-with-wait}

Sometimes, async Signal or Update handlers need to meet certain conditions before they should continue.

> Using a wait condition with [`Workflow.await`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/workflow/Workflow.html#await(java.time.Duration,java.util.function.Supplier)) sets a function that prevents the code from proceeding until the condition returns `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using a wait condition with `Workflow.WaitConditionAsync` sets a function that prevents the code from proceeding until the condition returns `true`.
```

### Problems when sending a Query {#query-problems}

When working with Queries, you may encounter these errors:

- **There is no Workflow Worker polling the Task Queue**:
  You'll receive a [`Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException.html) on which the `Code` is a [`RpcException.StatusCode`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Exceptions.RpcException.StatusCode.html) with a status of  `FailedPrecondition`.

- **Query failed**:
  You'll receive a [`Temporalio.Exceptions.WorkflowQueryFailedException`](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Exceptions.WorkflowQueryFailedException.html) exception if something goes wrong during a Query.
  Any exception in a Query handler will trigger this error.
  This differs from Signal and Update requests, where exceptions can lead to Workflow Task Failure instead.

- **The handler caused the Workflow Task to fail.**
  This would happen, for example, if the Query handler blocks the thread for too long without yielding.

## Dynamic components {#dynamic-handler}

> A dynamic Workflow, Activitity, Signal, Update, or Query is a kind of unnamed item.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A dynamic Workflow, Activity, Signal, Update, or Query is a kind of unnamed item.
```

Use a [Workflow.PayloadConverter](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Workflows.Workflow.html#Temporalio_Workflows_Workflow_PayloadConverter)  to convert `IRawValue` objects to your required type.
For example:

```csharp
[WorkflowSignal(Dynamic = true)]
public async Task DynamicSignalAsync(string signalName, IRawValue[] args)
{
    var input = Workflow.PayloadConverter.ToValue<DoSomethingParam>(args.Single());
    pendingThings.Add(input);
}
```

This sample creates a dynamic Signal.
When an unregistered or unrecognized Signal arrives with a matching signature, dynamic assignment uses this handler to manage the Signal.
It is responsible for transforming the sequence contents into usable data in a form that the method's logic can process and act on.

When registered, any Signals sent to the Workflow without a defined handler will be delivered to the dynamic `WorkflowSignal`.
Note that you can only register one each of a dynamic Signal, Query, or Update per Workflow Execution.
Dynamic handlers can be implemented in both regular and dynamic Workflow implementations.

> <div style={{backgroundColor: '#ffff00',padding: '0px 15px',borderRadius: '5px',border: '1px solid #cccccc',display: 'inline-block'}}>**.NET source did not include dynamic Workflow coverage.**</div>

Reviewer 2: Dynamic workflows and activities are with workflow and activity docs instead of with query, signal, update docs

### Set a dynamic Workflow {#set-a-dynamic-workflow}

A dynamic Workflow refers to a special stand-in Workflow Definition.
It's used when an unknown Workflow Execution request arrives.

Consider the "MyUnknownWorkflow" example described earlier.
The Worker may find there's no registered Workflow Definitions of that name or type.
After failing to find a Workflow Definition with a matching type, the Worker looks for a dynamic stand-in.
If found, it invokes that instead.

To participate, your Workflow must opt into dynamic access.
Adding `implements DynamicWorkflow` to the Workflow class declaration makes the Workflow Definition eligible to participate in dynamic invocation.
You must register the Workflow with the [Worker](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.worker.html) before it can be invoked.

```csharp
NEEDS EXAMPLE
```

> <div style={{backgroundColor: '#ffff00',padding: '0px 15px',borderRadius: '5px',border: '1px solid #cccccc',display: 'inline-block'}}>**Needs .NET.**</div>

Reviewer 2: Dynamic workflows and activities are with workflow and activity docs instead of with query, signal, update docs

<div style={{backgroundColor: '#ffff00',padding: '0px 15px',borderRadius: '5px',border: '1px solid #cccccc',display: 'inline-block'}}>**Needs .NET and an appropriate example with a payload converter.**</div>

```csharp
ADD SAMPLE HERE LIKE PYTHON
```

This Workflow converts the first element to a string, and uses that to execute an Activity.

<div style={{backgroundColor: '#ffff00',padding: '0px 15px',borderRadius: '5px',border: '1px solid #cccccc',display: 'inline-block'}}>**.NET source did not include dynamic Activity coverage.**</div>

### Set a dynamic Activity {#set-a-dynamic-activity}

A dynamic Activity is a stand-in implementation.
It's used when an Activity Task with an unknown Activity type is received by the Worker.

To participate, your Activity must opt into dynamic access.
Adding `implements DynamicActivity` to the type declaration makes the Activity Definition eligible to participate in dynamic invocation.
You must register the Activity with the Worker before it can be invoked.

```csharp

> NEEDS EXAMPLE

Reviewer 2: Dynamic workflows and activities are with workflow and activity docs instead of with query, signal, update docs

}
```

### Set a Dynamic Signal {#set-a-dynamic-signal}

A Dynamic Signal in Temporal is a Signal that is invoked dynamically at runtime if no other Signal with the same input is registered.
A Signal can be made dynamic by setting `Dynamic` to `true` on the `[WorkflowSignal]` attribute.
Only one Dynamic Signal can be present on a Workflow.

The Signal Handler parameters must accept a `string` name and `Temporalio.Converters.IRawValue[]` for the arguments.

> The [Workflow.PayloadConverter](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Workflows.Workflow.html#Temporalio_Workflows_Workflow_PayloadConverter) property is used to convert an `IRawValue` object to the desired type using extension methods in the `Temporalio.Converters` namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Workflow.PayloadConverter](https://dotnet.temporal.io/api/Temporalio.Workflows.Workflow.html#Temporalio_Workflows_Workflow_PayloadConverter) property is used to convert an `IRawValue` object to the desired type using extension methods in the `Temporalio.Converters` Namespace.
```
